Let's talk about the Agile product team. In general,
this is how an Agile team works.
There is no ideal size.
So do what works for you.
Typically, three or four, maybe even up to seven or so, again,
no hard and fast rules, but this range seems to work best.
The backlog of user stories is owned by the product manager.
They are in control of fine tune and prioritize the
backlog, potentially in each standup. Members of the team
define, build, and test user stories.
This is the main activity, and more importantly, drive value to the business.
Work is performed in iterations,
typically in 2‑week iterations for Agile/Scrum‑type projects.
But with Kanban, there is no notion of an iteration.
And if you are intrigued by this, check out my Kanban courses here,
at Pluralsight.
Now, each iteration produces working and functioning user stories,
but those stories may not be immediately given to the customer.
There may be one or more iterations in a release that is software deployed
to users. So a release maybe one iteration and then deployed to the users
or several iterations and then released that is deployed to the customers.
Of all these items listed, each team will have slight variations and
cadences that work for them, but you get the idea.
It is quite simple and brilliant. Hidden in the last slide were
several Agile team roles, and here are the Agile team roles
required for the success of your team.
The product owner or stakeholder may represent a line of
business, steering committee, department or other segments of
the user or customer communities.
The product owner needs to express the items clearly in the backlog so
they are understandable by the development team and prioritize them so the
development team knows what to work on next.
Now expressing those items clearly is definitely a challenge for product owners,
and that's where you come in, the BA, but more on that later in this
module. Then we have the Agile development team.
Development teams are cross‑functional and working concurrently.
I want to emphasize this since in the traditional project model,
typically,
code is developed, then tested, and then moved into pre‑production
environments as separate teams and/or processes.
The Agile/Lean team is working together concurrently
throughout the development process,
very important. In the Agile/Scrum world, the Scrum Master role is
facilitating the adherence to the Agile/Scrum process,
and the team is self‑directed, that is without a team leader.
What I have seen in practice more often,
though, is that there is no Scrum Master,
but instead either maybe a project manager or a line
manager or maybe a technical lead. In fact,
technical lead is most common.
Those roles may still provide the Agile process guidance, or another way of
saying it is the Agile development team will simply monitor itself.
Personally, I prefer this. Without a Scrum Master, I do save on budget, and
the team is self‑directed and doing just fine.
Now let's drill into the product owner or stakeholder role.
Here are the key product owner roles and responsibilities.
The product owners are representatives from the business,
a focal point for the business, and are sometimes called the stakeholder.
And I do like that term the best.
It sounds more accountable.
They also determine requirements.
They basically know what they want and when they want it,
or at least technically speaking,
they should. They list the requirements into a backlog.
The backlog is the list of requirements they would like implemented at a
point in time since the backlog list is dynamic and potentially changing.
They also prioritize them in the right order,
and the order can change based on the needs of the business at any time.
This role helps to simplify the development team's work by collecting up the
requirements and having a deeper understanding of them.
The product owner focuses the team on the backlog.
That is where all the action is.
The world revolves around the backlog.
The backlog is driving business value or it's not in the backlog.
The product owner works daily with the team,
as noted in the Agile Manifesto, and usually through daily standups.
As you can see,
the product owner has a very important responsibility.
Continuing with the roles required for success, let's drill
into the Agile development team.
Here is a sampling of the typical roles I have seen as part of
a development Agile team. Software developer is certainly the
most common members of the team.
This includes front‑end developers, back‑end developers,
integration developers, and many other developer skills. Creatives.
These are team members that design the look and feel,
artwork, and the user experience.
Usually,
the creatives hand off their output to the software developers to
implement. QA engineers, they will do the testing of the product,
whereas the software engineers will do the unit testing. The QA
engineers will do the end‑to‑end testing and making sure all the
user stories work properly.
Data or database engineers will obviously work with data,
designing databases, moving data, transforming data,
data analytics, and things like that. And certainly, system
architects. Many times on complex projects, system
architects are certainly required.
Also,
let's not forget business analyst may be part of the dev team as
well, providing further development or refinement of the user
stories, fill in feature questions,
doing additional business role research, and the like.
Also,
the Agile team roles will vary and be different in just about every
organization I have seen, which makes sense since skills can be
different, resources may or may not be available,
and budgets may impact team membership as well.
Now let's drill a little deeper into the BA role on an Agile development team in the next section.